Karasuno Karasuno Date Tech Date Tech
Here's our chance!
Jeez... That was one heck of a block.
Karasuno Karasuno Date Tech Date Tech
Yeah.
The best thing for you to do...
...is blend in, right?
Clench your fists tight enough to leave marks
Now, go bask in the orange glow
!
Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu !
Haikyuu
Sweating harder than ever has led us to the unknown territory of this high stage
The crowd's on their side and our chances are slim, so we could just skip out
But if the fear of getting hurt is keeping your wings in check
You may as well be a stuffed bird
If a person tries to live their life without getting a taste of their dreams and passions
They'll be torn by the heartbreak
But our goosebumps just won't go away
Our very souls are burning bright Beyond our limits
Awaits a land Of thrilling competition
Unleash everything you've got
Winning or losing doesn't even seem to matter
When you're in the zone and everything flows
In glorious slow-motion Now, go all-out!
Episode Eight: Challenger Episode Eight: Challenger
Episode Eight: Challenger Let's score here!
Wait.
Their number ten isn't jumping up.
Blend in.
Karasuno Karasuno Date Tech Date Tech
Asahi, nice spike!
All right! A round of diving drills!
Daichi, we won.
Oh... Force of habit.
They finally managed to win a set.
Yep.
Seal walk!
It looked like Date Tech hesitated on their last block.
Up until now, whenever Kageyama was the setter,
Hinata wasn't involved with the synchronized attacks.
Because he was attacking one tempo faster.
So everyone else was coming in on a first tempo attack and Hinata was on minus tempo.
Minus Minus Minus Minus
Everyone is on guard against that super-fast attack.
They'd be on guard as soon as they saw it, and even more so once they know about it.
The Iron Wall of Date
But right now, we're playing against Date Tech.
Even if they were to change up their block formation for strategic purposes,
it's still rare for them to let their opponents confuse them.
The amazing thing about Date Tech is that even when Hinata gets in a super-fast attack,
they're able to move on from it.
Yeah, it doesn't faze them.
Just because Date Tech is really good at blocking, that doesn't mean they're trying to stop everyone.
Even if they can't completely stop an attack, they'll have at least two blockers show up,
and they can at least touch Hinata's super-fast attack.
Even if they can't fully stop an attack, if they can limit its range, their floor defense will probably get it.
And...
in the second half of the match, Hinata will be exhausted and get completely shut down.
Say what?!
Karasuno will be completely helpless.
That's Date Tech's ultimate, ideal story!
Hey, what team are you on?
The more Hinata scores, the more likely they are to hesitate.
But...
But we're in the fourth set, and I can't say I'm seeing much hesitation.
They sure are resilient.
And that's exactly why...
...is blend in, right?
Yeah.
Sounds good to me.
The first time I saw your fast attack, I thought it was awesome!
It was love at first sight.
A fast attack that could be done from anywhere.
It meddles with blocks and its speed is terrifying for any blocker.
I thought its speed was almighty.
But...
against skilled read blocking, all that speed means is that you just get removed from the list of possible attackers.
Hinata's used his speed as a weapon more than anyone else,
yet he managed to bring this up on his own.
Just because it's effective, that doesn't mean a player will automatically want to do it.
There's no guarantee the weapon that worked first will continue working until the end.
I have to keep moving forward.
I have to keep going!
My greatest weapon is not getting caught!
If they adjust to me, I just have to adjust in turn.
Whoever stops adjusting won't be able to continue forward!
I touched it!
Nishinoya!
Got it!
I knew it. Hinata's not jumping out first.
I'm still here.
I'm not going anywhere.
Stay as a viable threat... ...until the very last...
...moment possible!
All right!
Daichi, nice spike!
Date Tech's blockers are watching Hinata even more.
All right!
Daichi, nice spike!
Well, he gave them so much trouble before and just suddenly went quiet.
Concentrate!
It's not like they're doing something completely new.
Correct. Tsukishima and Hinata are doing what they always do with our synchronized attacks.
Kogane!
Right!
But... That's too far, Kogane!
Sorry!
A tip!
Sorry, someone get it!
Kageyama!
Got it!
This time... it was super fast!
Minus tempo!
We never said we wouldn't use it!
Kogane froze up!
I totally know how that feels, Koganegawa!
You know,
using the super-fast attack after having him blend in is quite effective.
With read blocking, you're following where the ball goes up,
but the ball's not the only thing you're following.
The ball's position after the receive.
Where the spikers who are about to attack are.
The setter's location.
Your eyes try to instantaneously gather all the information you need.
That's why we're giving them even more information to process.
Minus? 1st?
Hinata's great at increasing that kind of information.
A Quick?
B Quick?
He's insanely annoying to the opponents.
Back row attack? C Quick?
Where's he coming from? When will he make his move?
Broad jump?
Not to mention, our talented setter is skilled enough that he's not going to give anything away.
Thanks to him, Hinata is able to attack from anywhere at any time.
And after blending into all that information...
the minus tempo attack suddenly bears its fangs.
U-Um...
I'm not sure if this is relevant or not, but previously, former Coach Ukai...
That said, Munchkin's minus tempo attack is impressive on its own,
but it's sorta being wasted.
That's what he said.
That damn old fart...
Karasuno Karasuno Date Tech Date Tech Yeah!
They got the super-fast attack in!
It's not like that one point is going to determine anything.
Huh?
Because that point just happened,
Date Tech is going to pay even more attention to Hinata now.
And then it'll make it a little easier to score from the sides.
The more we manage to do that, the more it's going to make their blockers hesitate.
And if luck is on our side, their blockers will get impatient and start guess blocking,
which completely destroys their blocking system.
Karasuno's ultimate, ideal story!
Don't interrupt, Yamaguchi.
My bad, Tsukki!
Haikyuu!!
Don't lose focus.
In terms of time, this is our last set.
Yessir!
Azumane, even if you're tired, try to maintain good form.
Yes, sir.
Karasuno Karasuno Date Tech Date Tech Tsukishima!
I've been setting like I usually do.
Is there a problem—
Tsukki...
Looks like Tsukishima's tank's about to be empty for the day.
He even ate lunch too.
Don't compare him to you!
Sorry, but I'm not a machine or a monster like Hinata.
Keep an eye on your teammates' conditions.
Right.
Get under it!
Ryuu!
Left! Left!
A cross-court spike?
It's no use!
I totally suck today!
Wow, Tanaka's sounding defeated. That's rare!
But that was a great straight spike.
I totally thought he was going to do a cross-court spike.
Kageyama learned "encouragement"!
Nah, I don't think that was just encouragement.
I think he was being serious.
You've still got a ways to go, Futakuchi!
How long are you going to be here?
Don't worry! We're free all day today!
Karasuno Karasuno Date Tech Date Tech
All right.
Is it me? Is it? It's me, right? Right?
Right?! Right?! Right?! Right?! Right?!
Yeah, Yamaguchi definitely has more guts now.
I love it when these guys are ready to get in there.
But...
Kinoshita!
You got this, Kinoshita!
Oba!
My bad!
All right!
We've got to do something about our receiving.
Do it again, Kinoshita!
It's out!
Could you not freak out every time you're called on?
You know, you managed to score a point regardless.
Yes, sir.
The next time you hide from me, I'm making you sit next to me the whole time.
Right... Karasuno Karasuno Date Tech Date Tech
Minus tempo!
Damn, Aone's awesome!
Got it!
A first-tempo synchronized attack... Or not?!
Their number ten?
Now he ran out?
This time, I'm gonna stop him!
Yes.
Nice spike!
Am I imagining it?
It looked like he was trying to lure Koganegawa over.
He knew that the blockers would react to the super-fast attack,
and so he acted like he was going to attack again and lured him over.
No, he's completely intent on hitting every time.
That's why it's easy for him lure over the opponent.
Was it just coincidence?
Was it instinct?
Regardless, I'm the one who chose Azumane, so it was my point.
What?
Karasuno Karasuno Date Tech Date Tech
Asahi! Slam it down!
The greatest wall in the prefecture...
His height and strength have gone way up since our last match.
But somehow, I'm not scared.
Azumane!
Three blockers!
Get in there!
Holy crap! Talk about power!
That's not all.
Karasuno Karasuno Date Tech Date Tech
Thank you very much!
Make sure you take the right balls!
Right!
Hey!
It seems like you practice a lot, but you don't tape up your hands at all.
Don't your fingers hurt?
I hurt my nails all the time.
I even tape them just in case now.
I strengthen my fingers.
Like finger push-ups and stuff.
It feels off when I tape them, so I try to avoid it.
Especially with my fingertips.
If there's anything even 0.1 mm between my fingers and the ball, it doesn't feel right.
That's why I always take perfect care of my fingertips and nails.
Finger training?!
I'll start today!
You won't last three days.
What about you, Kanekogawa?
Close, but it's Koganegawa.
Sorry.
What's your highest reach, Koganegawa?
Let's see... I think it was 340 cm.
The last time I measured it was about six months ago, so it might even be higher now.
He can easily lift a high ball up to a higher point...
Meaning he can set the ball from the shortest distance possible.
Kogane!
See ya later!
Yeah!
Do your best at the spring tournament.
We will.
Thank you.
The Date Tech guys are still pretty intimidating.
Definitely don't want to meet them in a dark alley.
Moniwa's super nice though.
No way.
He's the one who put those two intense second-years on a leash.
Maybe I'll grow some facial hair too.
That's how you're competing?
Good work today!
Good work!
Don't go overboard with individual practice!
Right!
Especially those who have to bike over a mountain to get home!
Nishinoya!
I'll practice with you tonight again!
One more, Hisashi!
H-Hang on a second... I can't...
Gotta get your heart rate up when you're practicing serves!
You jerk!
Damn it!
I don't think I've ever seen Nishinoya that agitated, even during a match.
Take this!
Wow, that was cool!
Hey, Kageyama.
What are you thinking when you're receiving?
How I'm going to kill the ball.
It sounds violent coming from you.
Hey, Nishinoya.
I'm pretty sure you could get by with just underhanded receives,
instead of forcing yourself to do overhanded receives, right?
I mean, I'd like to just do underhanded receives, and I thought I could pull that off.
But there are people better than me.
It's no fun if you don't try other options once you know they exist.
There you go, saying something cool again.
I want to be on the court more, but if I'm gonna mess up, I don't want any success either.
But Nishinoya is having a hard time with my serves right now.
I'll practice with you tonight again!
I take back what I said.
This is my practice!
I'll do a serve that Nishinoya can't get!
Right now!
What?
Kinoshita consistently serves the ball to the same spot.
I think he's aiming there.
I can't lose!
Having more good players isn't a bad thing.
It's not like you'll be replaced as our pinch server.
Yeah, but... That's not what I meant!
Oh, okay.
If only you could practice receiving and spiking at the same time!
But when Kageyama's there, I really wanna practice spiking.
Coach Grandpa Ukai said his place is gonna be on break for a while.
But I'm an expert at practicing by myself too!
Whatcha doin', Bro?
Doing my Ultimate Lonely Passing Drills!
I wanna do that too.
But then it wouldn't be lonely.
And you wouldn't be able to do it anyway, Natsu.
But I'm best at everything in P.E.!
Then use that.
Try with the squishy volleyball first.
First, bounce the ball up,
then keep the ball up in the air as you lay onto the ground.
Then continue to pass and stand back up.
Then you repeat.
All right. Give it a shot.
Not even close!
I'll show you how it's done!
How do you like that?
Bro...
You're getting along with the ball now!
It used to seem like the ball was a stranger.
But you guys are like best friends now.
So what if the pressure's on?
I don't need any help from on high
So what if I'm an egotist?
I just want to win, I don't have a reason why
I'll take on every challenge
I'll throw off any shadows of doubt
This is my chance to overcome my limits
I've gone all-out Conquered my fears
Turned them into conviction
Now fly high, higher, higher, to the top
Being so torn at the taste of defeat
Shed the tears that let our potential flower
If you try to give up, I'll just laugh it off
I don't know the meaning of the phrase
If you say it's too hard, I'll just laugh it off
Sit Tavern Sit Tavern Hey, thanks.
Want another one?
Something good happen?
The thing I asked Tattsuan about might make it in time.
The Crows Fly to Tokyo Once Again
I guess it's finally time.
Episode Nine: Everyone's Night
Next time: "Everyone's Night."